Nowadays there is a growing interest in higher education and almost every young person wishes to have a university diploma. I would not say that university degrees are useless; of course, they have their value but I think that the university courses are rather theoretical. They do not prepare students for the real life outside the university walls. The courses deal mainly with theoretical problems and general concepts. The specialization begins quite late, the practice is inadequate and is not always up to the requirements that real work will set to the students after they leave the university.
In my opinion most of the courses taken by first and second year students aim at acquiring general knowledge, instead of specialized which the students will need in their later study and work. General knowledge is not a bad thing in principle but sometimes it turns into a mere waste of time. I could point out as an example the course in Latin I took last year. I must say I have forgotten everything I once knew, just because I think I will never need Latin in my future work.
So, is it not more useful to spend a year studying a modern language?
Besides being oriented towards general knowledge some of the courses are too theoretical. A
good example is the course in Informatics that first year students take.Computers are becoming more and more important in our life and today every educated person is expected to be able to work with computers.The university course, however, dealt more with theoretical problems rather than with actual computer skills. The lectures we had were quite useless for people with no technical education and instead of trying to memorize incomprehensible data we could have spent more time working with the computers.
Another problem that students of foreign philologies are confronted with is the lack of opportunity to practice the language in a country where it is spoken. Students in law and medicine, for example, have one year of practice before starting work but students in philology do not have many chances to live and study abroad. Something that puzzles me when speaking about practice, is the fact that you can specialize in literature, linguistics or translation but you have compulsory practice in teaching. This practice is obviously of no importance to students who have no intention of becoming teachers.
In my opinion university education deals with too much theory and not enough practice. Students have to study subjects which are not closely related to the subject they want to specialize in. They have to study in details how things are done but sometimes they do not have the opportunity to do them themselves. That is why some students feel that the university does not prepare them for real life. Moreover, young people can see examples of men who have succeeded in their business and in life in general without university degrees, which is a kind of a proof of the saying that life is the best teacher.
