Once upon a time there lived a beautiful young lady and a handsome young gentleman. They were in love and wanted to get married but their parents objected to the marriage because they were very poor. They said that they would allow them to marry when they got good jobs with good prospects. So the young people waited until they got good jobs with good prospects and got married. But they were still poor and did not have any house to live in. But large organization lent them money to buy a house with all the latest electrical appliances and furniture. They even managed to pay off their debts and to insure their lives and property in some prosperous insurance companies such as SIC or VIS-2. The young couple lived happily for the rest of their life. And so ends another modern romantic fable.
Who tells you that in our modern world dominated by science, technology and industrialization, there is no longer a place for dreaming and imagination. Our materialistic society trains us from childhood to be acquisitive. We acquire knowledge, skills of money making, we acquire even knowledge of how to dream and imagine. Any other form of imagination that the materialistic one is looked on as a fable or a fairy tale. We do not believe in things which we cannot touch with our own hands or see with our eyes. Science and industrialization teach us that there is no God. One should believe only in material possessions that are real and not imaginary. Success is measured in terms of the money we earn or on the basis of our achievements in science, technology and industrialization.
"Science and technology" is the future religion of the world. If it says that there is no place for dreaming then one should lock up his imagination and restrict his dreams to the sphere of making more money.
It is not only in affluent societies that people are obsessed with the idea of making more money.
Consumer goods are needed everywhere and modern industry deliberately sets out to create new markets. Goods are made not to last forever. You no sooner buy a new product than you are thinking about its replacement. "Mammon" as Carlyle names the industrial world has spread out its influence everywhere as an octopus spreads out its tentacles. While Mammon is worshipped and the Gospel of Mammomism is obeyed as never before, the rich get richer and the poor poorer.
The industrial outlook has seriously influenced education. Its effect is so powerful that students are left without any hope for dreaming and imagination. Fewer and fewer students acquire knowledge for the sake of studying. Every course of study must lead to fields in the sphere of science, technology or industry. Even to literature is given scientific explanation. The supply of skilled personnel far exceeds the demand but people are still taught to think that more and more pioneers in the sphere of science are needed. recruiting tactics of different companies have led to the "brain drain", the process of which skilled people offer their services to the highest bidder.
Workaholism has deprived young people of any imagination or dreaming.
Our industrial world also tries to organize some sort of social orderlines out of apparently inevitable chaos. A lot of -isms are discussed nowadays - individualism, liberalism, pluralism, nationalism, utilitarianism. Even some sort of new moralism is imposed on modern man.
However, while some people are in a hurry to organize their lives at the expense of others, they do not realize that time passes quickly. While they are trying to adapt means to ends " they themselves are becoming slaves to the power that they want to exert. People become means for the fulfillment of that old prophets and wiser men have foreseen and prophesied.
"In the last days perilous times shall came. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, bosters ..."
All these things are tone Industrial societies run the risk of being caged in mechanism and people are becoming merely the sum of mechanical processes. They are conditioned to ask only the "answerable" questions.
What becomes with the romance fable. They paid off their debts and lived happily for the rest of their lives. Why did they live happily? Because they possessed all the latest electronic appliances. What happened when they died? This is a question without an answer. It spoils the whole story. Yet the story ends up happily. But does this happiness last forever? It is limited in time. What is happiness then? I'd better not ask any more questions or I run the risk of spoiling this modern romance fable.
