The world we live in is obsessed with the achievements of science, technology and industrialization. The modern civilization has created incommunicative, impatient, narrow-minded people that do not care for the history but only for their well-being. The fact is that we have ceased to be spiritual and simple beings and have turned into too practical, down-to-earth people.
That is why there is no longer place for imagination and dreaming in our present life.
According to me, the modern technologically dominated world has made us feel more isolated and more desperate because we have lost our vital connection with our soul and our contact with the people that surround us. Our technological age is on the way to dehumanize us and turn us into frieks obsessed with speed, perfection and materialism. TV, for example, encourages not thinking by keeping people glued to the set, offering them beautiful images and ready-made ideas. People no longer care for reading and intellectual talks because in our speed-obsessed world they do not have the time and desire to spend hours with them.
More and more people are beginning to ask the question "Do we really need all these technological achievements to live happily?" And more and more of them answer it negatively.
Those people educate their children to hate commercialism and to respect their relationship with the people, they encourage their children to live with animals in order to be closer to Nature, they encourage talents and positive thinking. And maybe these young people will be deprived from the sense of chaos and helplessness that is characteristic to our present life and maybe they will develop in themselves the old human values and will be really complete human beings. And maybe this generation and the next to follow will no longer feel entrapped and isolated from the essential things in life. And I merely envy these people because they will live nearer to the Nature, will gain satisfaction from everyday life, will lead a healthier life than us and will have relationships with each other based on understanding, patience, love. Let's hope that this dream comes true and that the balance between the spiritual and material aspects of human nature be restored for the well-being of us all.
