As stated, the topic is based on the assumption that a University degree should be practically oriented. Most people may hope or even believe that after graduating from a university, they will be prepared for the real world. However, all their expectations will possibly become more realistic once they have answered the question: "What is the aim of higher education?"
Unfortunately, in Bulgaria, the answer was and maybe still is quite different from that of other countries. This was mainly due to the political system which was in power in our country for the last four and a half decades. During that period the attitude to the educational system underwent a considerable change. The socialists made us believe in the close bound between higher education and success in life. They even managed to persuade us that the best thing one could achieve in their life was to become a student. It was such a thorough change of perspective that is still difficult to overcome.
In other countries, however, the distinction has been made between practical and theoretical education. In case a person wishes to be trained in a profession, they go to special colleges.
Otherwise, they enter a University. But when one decides to go in for a University Degree, they are well aware of the fact that what higher education will provide them with is knowledge, rather than abilities to perform a certain kind of job. Thus, they are psychologically prepared for the theoretical models to be presented to them there.
Theorizing has its peculiar characteristics and it is they that the people involved in the process benefit from. The advantages of dealing with theory account for the improvement in the quality of the student's brain.
The most important result of higher education is to provide students with situations which will help them learn to solve all kinds of problems. While studying, students are assigned many tasks to which, in most cases, they are supposed to react quickly and satisfactorily. For this purpose they need to acquire certain strategies. Not only will they learn to find the information they need and compile it in their works, but they will also learn to use their own reason. This is actually the first time in their lives when they will have to solve a "real" problem. No matter how insignificant and abstract it may seem to them, the methods they have acquired in dealing with these problems will inevitable be of use to them in the future.
Yet, it is not only the ways of solving problems that a student acquires. They are also supposed to remember certain amount of information. Despite the fact that now the education is mainly concerned with committing particular data to your memory, which you will need to pass your examinations, there are still some positive features accompanying the process. In any case one cannot remember information without seeing the logical connections in it. Most students are striving through the facts they are supposed to remember as trying to understand them. In this respect, one actually makes great use of their brain and, as a result, develops it. The improvement in the quality of their reasoning will certainly greatly contribute to their later life.
As a whole, a University Degree involves theorizing. Thus, it does not prepare students for the real world directly. Nevertheless, it helps improve the quality of the student's thought, which inevitably leads, although indirectly, to their success in life.
