To live means more than simply to exist. Life requires steady nerves and constant fight. The former is given by nature - one either has it or not; the latter is the result of the clash with the so called real life. There are no written rules for the leading of that life-long battle or if there are such rules, nobody knows for sure if they are valid unless put into practice.
It is claimed that one's life is only partly predictable: Unfortunately the largest part could not be foretold. Therefore, it often happens so that one has inevitably to pass through some hardships in order to understand whether they can survive or not. The more trials one encounters with, the more experienced they become. In that sense life resembles a great university.
The University proper, however, i.e. the university as an institution has quite a different role from that which is alleged to it. Everyone knows, judging from their own experience that theory and practice have very little in common. Moreover, the two often clash for what is on paper is fixed forever while what is in life is subjected to constant change.
Hence ensues all the trouble for everyone who has been a student has asked themselves if not all the time, at least once in their course of education if theory and practice are so irrevocable then what is the use of all the toil and hardships, of all those sleepless nights, sore eyes and spiritual tortures. In two words: what is the use of all this physical and moral torment that one undergoes as a student?
Unfortunately, the answer to this question is to remain in the theoretical sphere, therefore the purpose of university education is to be sought in the other field than the pure material realization of the acquired knowledge.
To my mind, the university degrees are meant to be and could not but be theoretical for the university education aims at the development of skills that have to do with one's psychic adaptation to the real world. The popular maxim that body follows the mind is to be suitably applied here for there is no such thing as objective world - everything in one's environment is the produce and reflection of one's own idea of it. In this sense the university provides a good course in positive thinking - a quality which, to me, is crucial for one's survival in the "real world".
In addition to that University degrees are given to ascertain one's ability to think, for the other important role of the university study is to teach students how to think: to develop their mental abilities, i.e. the ability to make logical connections, to find a way out of a difficult situation, to come to reasonable conclusions. These are qualities which are of absolute necessity in life.
Therefore, the university degrees proper are of little value when trying to find oneself some kind of a job but the acquired abilities they stand for are what really matters. For these abilities are important not only for making one's way in the real life but also for building up one's personality.
