Our educational system in one of the largest in the world. It offers variety, diversity but not flexibility and value for money. This is due to the fact that many of our university degree courses are either illegal or award the students with jobless future. They do not motivate students to make further research Undergraduates are looking forward to receive their degrees for the sake of some future reward.
University degrees are necessary in out materialistic society. However degree levels in vocational subjects, such as art and design, engineering, business studies, and hotel and catering, do not have a future. The role of university degrees has been replaced by the fact that they tell you nothing about a person's true ability and aptitude. They are mark either of success or failure.
Furthermore they are theoretical and do not prepare students for real life.
A good education should, among other things, train you to think for yourself. The examination system does anything but that. What has to be learnt is laid down by a syllabus and students are encouraged to memorize. Examinations do not motivate students to make research and read widely, they induce studying for marks instead. They lower the standards of teaching and lead to theoretical degrees that are designed to be put in a frame and to serve as souvenirs.
The most successful Bachelors and Masters or PhDs are not always the best educated. They are the best trained in the technique of working under stress. They live in a world of vicious competition where success and failure are measured. University degrees do anything but prepare them for this competition. They do not prepare students to think for themselves and make their own research on a given subject. They put restrictions to their sphere of knowledge and do not give them any opportunity to widen the already existing theory or amend some of the old things and add some new information.
Degrees which can be completed in a shorter period of time, the so called "fast-track" degree courses are even less practically oriented. Standards are rigorous yet students tend to memorize information and creative work is left behind. Another important point that should be made is the fact that many "fast-track" degree courses do not reflect and adopt to the needs of real life or professional bodies. One might have many degrees of this kind but what is the point of having them if he cannot put into practice his knowledge.
Many university degrees are a result of a subjective assessment by some examiner who marks stacks of hastily scrawled scripts in a limit amount of time. Students even do not have right to appeal after their examiner's decision. That is why many capable students turn into drop-outs and drop-outs turns into millionaires.
In conclusion I would like to say that only when the university degree courses become more practically oriented and not so theoretical will university degrees have any value and adapt to the need of real life. Furthermore students will be encouraged to make some research on their own, to chose postgraduate courses and to get postgraduate degrees.
