Science, technology and industrialization are the characteristic features of our world. With the introduction of machinery in the performance of our everyday tasks many changes have occurred both in our values and in our lifestyle. The main function of the achievements has been to facilitate us but it has also brought about many problems. One of them concerns out imagination.
The innovations have left us with little time and opportunity to dream. Nevertheless, people must fight for their right of indulging in illusions because they are one of the only things left which can help us survive.
The industrialization has greatly influenced our lives as human beings. Before the technological breakthrough people had a completely different way of life and of looking at it. Other things were considered critical for their survival, not machines. Most important of all was the conscious that if it had not been for their work and resourcefulness humankind would not have made the achievements and acquired the skills which we have now. Indeed, it is through hard work and the possibilities of our brain that scientists claim we have evolved. Nevertheless, this does not prevent us from doing wrong with the good.
The whole concept of man is now changed due to the development of the sciences. Although the technical revolution has provided us with means of facilitating our work and, as a whole, making our lives much easier, it has failed at one aspect which, according to me, is the most significant one - the human soul. It is of what the industrialization has deprived us. Many people nowadays do not use their inventiveness or creativity to earn their bread. Rather, they are equalled to mere assistants to machines with the only duty to help and supervise their work. If before there has been more need of workers now the reverse situation can be observed. People are becoming jobless because they are no longer needed in their working places. This mars their self- confidence and influences their whole being. Yet, there is still hope.
People find support in their dreams. They create a world of their own, with no machines present in it. It is absolutely free from evil. The relations between people are in perfect condition.
Everybody is willing the help the others and is not preoccupied with their own well-being. It is, in a way, a nostalgic look back at the time preceding the industrial revolution, when man was in harmony with nature and with him- or herself. This illusive world provides them with an escape from the brutal reality, where there is little happiness. People try to find hope and comfort in their dreams. They look upon the imagination as a source of strength with which they would continue their struggle with life.
Nevertheless, despite they escape from the industrialization which people seek in their imagination, there is still another point which connects the two. Before the technological breakthrough many people have visualized the innovations of their dreams: how they would travel fast, fly, etc. It was the industrial revolution which made it possible for their dreams to come true.
Therefore, our civilization now represents our ancestors' dreams although plus their disadvantages, which they had not taken into account.
As a whole, I would like to emphasize how desperately we need our dreams. They are the ones which will help us face the difficulties we encounter throughout our lives. The imagination will help the human mind survive in this crazy industrial world.
