Hard, as our modern times are, they make as proud with one thing only: the technical progress we are all witnesses of. Science takes big steps forward, as well: there is a whole flood of inventions pouring out of the scientific laboratories. It seems as if the amount of inventive people increases with every single minute and while in the past such people were only few and were called geniuses and were looked up to, nowadays they are myriads and are often regarded merely as common people with a great power of imagination.
Due to such ingenious people the modern times could be regarded as times when imagination fuses to a great extent with the dry science. Let me take for an example the so called "demos", i.e. images presented on a computer. When I first saw such a thing I was amazed and could not believe that such beautiful thing could be a creation of a single man's mind. What my eyes beheld was a motley play of colours, forms and music. In all my ardour I spontaneously called it "art".
However, it was not art. As it turned out later, it was merely the result of a programme made up of several mathematical formulae with constantly changing parametres. In fact, these unbelievably beautiful demos were a product of science, not of imagination. Hence follows the question: if we can no longer tell between art and science, does it mean, then, that the human race has lost its Godlike gift of original creation that finds expression in what we call art, and has yielded to the process of total mechanization. This conclusion is too appalling to be the true one.
The problem of science versus imagination could be regarded from another point of view. To my opinion this technological progress triggers off the imagination in a certain way. To support my statement I would like to turn back to the example with the demos: the computer faced me with pictures that could not possibly be created even in my craziest dreams. They looked so cosmical that I could not believe that a simple human mind was in power to produce them.
At the same time I felt enormously enriched: I saw a new world opening before me and I could feel how my imagination unfurled. However, my fancy flew to nowhere for I realized in a flash that the computer would always be more ingenious for with it one idea would have millions of versions, while with me the idea would remain the One. I felt defeated; I succumed to the power of the machine.
On one hand there was the man who was the real creator of the programme.
On the other hand the demo was nothing but a realization of a firmly set formula that the man had simply learned and applied appropriately.
All things considered, it is the human mind that is in the very start of things. The human being is the one to flash the spark - how - by using their dreams and imagination as a basic sort of ideas.
In the last reckoning, all is in nature and waits there to be found but it is man, not the machine that is to make the invention for the machine lacks one crucial quality: intuition - the sacred inner bond of man with nature. It is mainly this inextricable, deep-rooted quality of man's which justifies the existence and application of notions such as dream and imagination.
