I think it is important to be able to use English. Because English is used by most people in the world. We have more opportunity to contact with foreign countries and foreign peoples. In order to communicate with them, we have to use common language. It is English. We sill be in trouble if we can't use or understand it. It may be impossible to live without using English in the future. If we meet this case, we can't help using it.
I have studied English for about six years. So I don't think my English was not so poor. But actually, when a man who spoke English suddenly asked me the way to the elementary school, I felt nervous because I couldn't speak it well. After the guide, I felt my English ability was not enough to communicate with foreign people. I could understand what he said, but I couldn't use English. It doesn't make sence if we can't use English however we study it hard.
If we can become to communicate with foreign people, we can share a lot of experiences and spread our sight. They are merits for us. They will let us live more happily.
Commonly, Japanese are said that Japanese are not activity and not willing to contact with foreign peoples. Since Japanese are afraid of making mistakes because they can't understand and use English well. Foreign people man hare bad impression toward Japanese because of Japanese character. If Japanese use English freely, foreign people understand us, and will come to be friendly to us. The impression towerd us will be improved. They and us feel happy each other.
Understanding each other will solve some problems. Prejudices and distinguish may disappeare in the future. It is a wonderful thing. But mastering English is very hard. Unless we come to write, speak, read, and listen to English, our English doesn't develop. If we can't write or speak English well, we can't tell what we want to tell. If we can't read and listen to English, we can't foreign people want to tell. Only one of English ability lacking, we can't communicate with foreign people. I think Japanese students need to master English.
But I am afraid of that our mother tongue is not used often when English is used widely. Mastering English is good but we mustn't make traditional things extinct. So we must sare mother tongue in developing our English. We take English as a second language. It is one of the most important things.
I think Japanese students need to master English, too. That a lot of people is more easy, confortable, and happy. I think it is one kind of peace. English is a second language. So, we must sare our mother tongue. We never forget it forever.
