I think lately that English will be indispensable to us for the foreseeable future.I think that gradually Japan becomes internationalization and the time will surely have a lot of when you will communicate with person who can speak this English. And, if you use the Internet, English sentence will be found usually. Then, after all, I will feel need of English skill. And, English is widely spoken not only at the United States of America, but also England, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and and else country which be a second language. English is no longer just a foreign language, it is common language all over the world.
I am feeling that I must learn such a language. "I do not go to broad, so I do not need English" It doesn't obtain. There are a lot of foreign people in Japan and English is used by the mass media like newspaper, radio, TV or sign.I think that perhaps English became a part of our lives or necessary already. On the whole, in Japanese words pronunciation is different but words from English is used by KATAKANA. As of that, it is proved that English became a part of our lives or necessary already.
By the way, so to speak about myself, I think that I want to be able to read and write a certain extent. I don't find distinctly things I want to do yet. But, since I got into the depart ment of Britain and America literature, I think that I want to master sophistication of international.
First of all, I want to be able to master English in order. I think there are a lot of subject day after day and its quantity are vast. But I hope that the pain will be usefull. And I think if I could watch the foreign movie, I would be happy. So that, I will be able to qualify myself like examination of English and so on in this for four years. I have heard that there is a English class at elementary school before.And English conversation school like ECC, NOVA, EAON came to increase. Also, it was proved that people who need English. And when interviewing for accession, corporation seem to be demand ability of English. Then, however I talk about English again and again.
As a result, it can say that Japanese students need to master English as a second language.