To master a second language is better than just knowing one language. But I think it doesn't have to be English. Maybe there are many students who don't like English. Some of them might like French better than English. The language that they like can be German or Spanish or Italian or Chinese or other languages.
English is a popular language in the world and it will be useful if everyone can use it and I think if America developes more than today, English will become more and more popular but if America's economy and other things declines English will just become a language which American and English people use. To think about this, studying English or speaking English will be useless the next developing area is said to be Asia so it might be good to study Chinese.
Why does the second language have to be English? Because is the language witch is most used by the people in the world is Spanish or Chinese. Then why don't people study Spanish or Chinese? Because English is easier than Spanish or Chinese to study, English is said that it is a easier language to learn. I think this is right because to learn Japanese is difficult because it is complicated but English is not complicated than Japanese and the grammar is slim.
The most things I want to say is that to master a second language is important but it doesn't have to be English. It is no use to study such a thing that you aren't interested in. And the things people are interested in are different so it will be good if someone studies the second language as Chinese and the other person studies the second language as French. If two of them goes on a trip they can go to France or China without worring about the language.
Why is English so attractive? I don't know. Maybe it is because Hollywood stars are American. But this won't persuasion anyone, I like English because I used to live in England. I thought many kind people are living in this country. And I wanted to communicate more carefully and wanted to get more friendly so I wanted to study English more harder. this is the reason why I am studying English.
My conclusion of studying English is I want to communicate with many people. And I have a dream and it uses English. People communicate with English because it is a easier language to learn. I think Japanese students need to master second language but it doesn't have to be English. Study other language and open your world it will be exciting.
