What is the international language? In Japan, we have learned English as a second language. Why do we have to learn it? Most of Japanese have learned English for 6 years from junior high school. However most of them forget which have learned at school after they graduate from school. Because most of them don't have opportunities to use English after school. People who don't like English said we need not to master English. Because here is Japan. Japanese need not speak English. We can communicate with others by Japanese. Foreigners should speak Japanese in Japan.
I don't agree with that. Today many foreigners visit in Japan. And also many Japanese like to travel other countries. If our native language is different from other countries we travel, we couldn't communicate with each other. If we can understand their culture, historical background and their mind through communicating. Therefore I think Japanese students should master English as a second language. Why do Japanese students need to master English? I think there are many countries where they can master or learn English as a second language as Japan. And also there are many countries where their mothe tongue is English. For example I visited China last month. The accident happend. The bath in my room was broken. Water could not take out. So I tried to ask how to fix the bath on the phone. I stayed in the hotel which is managed by Japanese company. Therefore I thought the staff in the hotel can speak Japanese. On the phone I asked the man by Japanese. However he couldn't understand what I said. He said to me "I can't speak Japanese at all. Please say in English or chinese" As I couldn't speak Chinese, I told him the problem in my bathroom by English. Because I used English, we could communicate with each other. So the bathroom would be fix.
Today, we begin to teach English in primary school. More internationalize, more we need to master English to communicate with others. There are a lot of languages in the world. To communicate with others, I think English should be, international language in the future: If people in the world can speak English, I think some international problem such as enviromental problems would be solved. Because people can understand their thoughts by communicating in English. By using English as the international language, minunderstanding which happened by having different background culture or language will decrease in the future. So I hope Japanese students need to master English as a second language. To success mastering English, I hope Japanese students begin to learn English as soon as possible.
