I think that Japanese students need to master English as a second language. Because English is the most widely spoken language all over the world and English spoken countries are one of the economic centers of the world. When we go out into the world, on every opportunity, we use a lot of English. And can speak English is one's benefit. The people whose native language is not English, there are many people master English as a second language like Japanese students. So can speak English is can converse with many people all over the world.
When we go to the trip, whereever we go, It is very useful to speak English. The people who can speak English is not in trouble almost all over the world. If they are involved in the worst situation, they can solve a problem for themselves. If we make a trip abroad, we must learn English a little. If we can speak a little English, we don't have to join a package tour. We can travel in various places we like. And we can go the place which is not be on the guide. Today, the number of people who goes to abroad is incleased.
On the job situation, English is important, too. There are lots of jobs to use English. For example, a flight attendant, a foreign trader, an announcer, an interpreter, a translator and grand hostess etc. If we take these job, we must be able to speak English. Even if we don't take these job, English is important, too. For example, when foreigner guists come to the company, the employee who can speak English is useful for the company. Today, a lot of companies have dealings with foreign company. So, English is important on the job situation.
If we learn English, we must learn English culture, too. If we don't know English culture, we can't use some of explessions. American English and British English are very different. We must pay attention to this difference. We also must to know historical background. During the war, The United Stats of America is used to be a British colony. And India is, too. We must to converse after careful consideration.
Seeing from all angles, It is clear that English is very important. So, I think Japanese students need to master English as a second language. And, I want to learn and master English as a second language. I'll try as hard as I can. And I want to make full use of my ability in the future.