It is not bad that Japanese students need to master English as a second language, because English is becoming an official language all over the world. But, I do not think that all of Japanese students need to master English as a second language. I think that the English, and other people do not need to master English.
I study English very hard and need to master English and want to master English, because I want to be an English teacher of a junior high school. One of my friends wants to be a tour counductor, so she needs to master English, too. Like these things, English teacher, tour counductor, stewardess, interpreter, etc. according to occupation, we need to master English. To study English is better than not to study English. But, even if they mastered English, maybe it is wasted. I think that it is better to study for the liberal arts subjects than to master English. I think that it is enough for them, to study English for the liberal arts subjects.
I think that also people who do not need English for occupation, can master English. If he liked English and he was interested in English, he could master English easily. It is broaden his outlook that he masters English. If his outlook was broaden, he could know many things. For example, culture of foreign countries, many foreign countries people, and so on. Conversely, I think that people who do not like English as is not interested in English, he does not need to master English, because if he who does not like English and is not interested in English, form the start, tried to master English, he was sure not to master and probably he will become do not like English more. It is great, he likes English more, but, it is bad, he does not like English more.
To study English and to master English five us many great things. If we study English and master English, we could communicate many foreign countries people, know many cultures of foreign countries, and so on. When we visit foreign countries, if we could speak English, we would not lose our way and we would not have many troubles. It is wonderful. It is easily and wonderful that people who like English and is interested in English, master English. But, it is agony and waste of time that people who do not like English and is not interested in English form the start, master English.
Anyway, I think that it is not bad that Japanese students need to master English as a second language. But, I do not think that all of Japanese students need to master English as a second language. To study and to master English efficiently, we must choose own study style, and make own study pace. Nevertheless, English is becoming an official language all over the world, the most important thing is own way of thinking.
