I think to master English as a second language is important for us.
When I was child or junior high school student, I thought people who can speak English were wise, special people. but the society go today is running internationalization. To master English is common, English is, as it were common language in the world. There is a TV commercial of English conversation school. In the commercial an actors says, "if you can speak English, you can talk with a billion people." the words moved me. Yes, that's right!
In Japan, Japanese speak almost Japanese only. But in other countries, people speak English as second language like mother tonge. I think those people are circumstances that they speak often English. But in Japan there isn't that circumstance. So people speak Japanese only.
A Japanese who visited many foreign countries said, "Japanese spend a lot of money, time and energy mastering English. But Japan is c country that cannot master English well." Many Japanese are thinking that they must master English. So they enter English conversation school, if they want to master English, they must read, and hear and speak English a lot. But they maybe do so only in that school.
Japan has no good circumstance. For example, In New York, London, Paris, even Southeast Asia like Singapore, English news was sold at the corner of the street without constraint. But Japan isn't so. There is news "the International Herald Trifune". It is 350 yen in Japan. It is expensive. And in the station, only "Japanese edition Newsweek2 is sold. Only Japanese edition! And on TV, movies broadcast in doffing into Japanese edition. And there aren't programs that is talked in English only. So Japanese rarely hear and read English in the daily life.
There is a plan that pupils also need to study English in Japan. I think so too. But I think the study is not grammer. I think the study is learning sense of English in the chills world.
We will go to Boston next year. But I speak English well. By I go to Boston, I want to be able to talk dairy English. If I master English in dairy life, I can learn and understand a lot of things. But if I can7t talk English dairy conversation I study only dairy conversation.
I think to master English as a second language is important. Today is isnternationalization society!
